docs(style-guide): writing code with effect (#50)
Effect-TS/website: pages/docs/style-guide.mdx

import { pipe } from "@effect/data/Function"
```

## Writing Code with Effect

Nested callbacks are a common problem in JavaScript, and are often handled by using async/await in most modern JavaScript codebases. However, since we are working in the world of Effects, the available APIs are a bit different.

This section will cover the three common ways to organize Effectful code:

1. Using the pipeable API
2. Using Generators
3. Using the `Do` simulation

### 1. Using the pipeable API

The pipe function is a common way to organize Effectful code. It is a function that takes a value and a list of functions, and applies the functions to the value in order.

The pipe function is defined in the Effect library, and is available in the Effect namespace.

```ts twoslash
import { pipe } from "@effect/data/Function"
import * as Effect from "@effect/io/Effect"
import * as Random from "@effect/io/Random"

const example = pipe(
  Random.next(),
  Effect.flatMap((n) =>
    n > 0.5 ? Effect.succeed("yay!") : Effect.fail("oh no!")

>   )

Author: I think prettier will respect newlines but you can try running lint to see!

)
```

Here, Random.next() is getting piped as an argument to `Effect.flatMap`.

<Callout>
  Many functions in Effect have `dual` APIs, which means that you can either
  call it `data-first` or `data-last`. Here, you can see how `Effect.flatMap`

>   was already defined, so `Random.next()` is passed in last. Similarly, you can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  is _after_ the call to `Random.next()` in the `pipe`, so `Random.next()` is passed in last (i.e. `data-last`). Similarly, you can
```

Author: I was doing another read at my original copy and definitely wanted to change it, thanks for these changes! Will do another pass.

>   also call `Effect.flatMap(Random.next(), (n) => ...)` with `Random.next()` and
>   without `pipe` to get the same result.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  also call `Effect.flatMap(Random.next(), (n) => ...)` directly without `pipe` with `Random.next()` as the first argument (i.e. `data-first`) get the same result.
```

</Callout>

### 2. Using Generators

Effect has a unique imperative API to solve for the problem of lots of nested callbacks when using functions like `pipe`. Instead of writing the code above, here's what it would look like if you were to write the same thing with the generator API.

```ts twoslash
import * as Effect from "@effect/io/Effect"
import * as Random from "@effect/io/Random"

const example = Effect.gen(function* ($) {
  const n = yield* $(Random.next())
  if (n > 0.5) {
    return yield* $(Effect.succeed("yay!"))
  } else {
    return yield* $(Effect.fail("oh no!"))
  }
})
```

> Note all the asterisks and dollar signs. The `*` is used to denote a generator, and the `$` function which is passed in as an argument to `Effect.gen` must follow `yield*` if you are yielding an Effect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note the `yield*`, which is used to yield the next value from the generator. Additionally, one can also observe the `$` argument passed to `Effect.gen`, which is just a function that serves as an "adapter" that allows TypeScript to track our Effect types. When yielding an Effect, you must pass the Effect you would like to `yield*` to the adapter function to ensure that TypeScript can properly infer the types.
```

This way, you can write in a more imperative style rather than having to use `pipe` and `flatMap`.

<Callout type="info">

>   The `$` argument can actually also be used as a `pipe`. For example, you could

Reviewer: Two suggestions:
1. I would note that you can call the `$` adapter function whatever you want, it doesn't have to be called `$`
2. I would also maybe show a quick example of using `$` as a `pipe`

  pipe `Random.next()` into something else before yielding.
</Callout>

### 3. Using the `Do` Simulation

To avoid nested pipes and generators, Effect has a `Do` function which can be used to simulate `Do` notation in other languages.

<Callout type="info">
  If you are familiar with Haskell or Scala, you may be familiar with `Do`
  notation or Scala's `for` comprehensions. Effect has a similar API.
</Callout>

Here's what a slightly more complex version of the above example would look like if you were to use the `Do` function.

```ts twoslash
import * as Effect from "@effect/io/Effect"
import * as Random from "@effect/io/Random"
import { pipe } from "@effect/data/Function"

const example = pipe(
  Effect.Do(),
  Effect.let("randomValue", () => 3),
  Effect.bind("randomNumber", ({ randomValue }) =>

>     randomValue > 2 ? Random.next() : Random.next()

Reviewer: Is there a reason we call `Random.next()` twice here?

Author: I just wanted to choose some Effect I could call but it does look confusing. Mainly trying to show how `randomValue` is now accessible from that line
